Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Decent. I'm your host as always Ricardo Loops. And
today I'm joined by Doctor Claudio 10. He is
a tenured research group leader in the Department of
Early Prehistory and Quaternary Ecology at the University of
Tubingen. This is our second interview. I'm leaving the
link to our first one in the description box.
Uh And today we're going to talk basically about
the differences between ape culture and human culture. So,
Doctor 10 Year, welcome back to the show. It's
always a pleasure to talk to you.
It's a great pleasure to talk to you and
thank you very much for having me a second
time. Thanks,
great. So OK, let's perhaps start with some basics
here. Uh How would you define ape culture? What
is ape culture?
Right? Yeah. Well, uh ape culture would be cultures
um shown by apes. But when we talk about
culture generally, and this is uh always news for
newcomers to the field. At first, it turns out
that culture is quite a slippery fish. It's quite
difficult to uh measure it to, to really get
hold of uh culture generally, not just in apes
anywhere. And um to see why that is, you
know, we can imagine that we can measure genes,
you know, the existence of genes. Anyway, um what
to make with this data is a different matter.
But we can measure them, you know, we can
find them same for environment. You know, we can
measure the temperature somewhere, we can measure the humidity,
uh someplace and so on. But with culture, it
is difficult, it continues to be difficult to really
measure our culture. Culture is something that happens out
in the world sometimes stays out in the world
such as cultural artifacts and so on. But it
is also something that is very much in minds
in brains. And we don't have very good means
to get to these brains, you know, uh it's
not something that I personally do, for example. So
the general approach had been then in the past,
in order to try to pinpoint culture is to
take away the signal and the factors from other
um uh areas. So, for example, to try to
find, if you control for, if you measure and,
and um adjust for genetic differences, and if you
measure and control for environmental differences between populations, if
you do both of these things, the idea is
that what is left over, if there is some
difference, still left over between these populations, that you
can call that difference um cut. So it's an
approach that the philosophers call an X Negativo approach.
It's basically defining uh something by uh the absence
of all the other things. Um And that is
what, what culture has been uh come to be
seen. And also in the apes, I can talk
more later, maybe about this, but population differences between
apes that are not very obviously linked to genetic
differences and um environmental differences, that's what people call
ape culture.
Uh And so, uh I would imagine that we
can study ape culture through different means. So I
guess that perhaps some aspects of it could be
studied in the lab, but we can also study
ape culture in the wild. So, um uh what
do we know about wild ape culture? And is
it similar or different to human culture?
Yes. So wild ape culture is a prototypical case
of ape culture. Wild ape culture is what most
people focus on. Really when you, when you open
up your TV channel and you see David Attenborough
come up and talk about, I don't know chimpanzee
nut cracking or something and so on. And then
they would invariably talk about some culture there. That's
what they are ultimately uh on about, they talk
about these dissimilarities between populations and they call that
um culture. And again, uh when, when you ask
about the similarities, now, now we get into the
topic of what we are talking about today. Um
The similarities uh there is some similarity in the
sense that indeed we also see in humans, population
differences, right, the way that I eat uh rice
might be different to how some other people and
some other populations eat rice. Right? So there are
some differences and these differences can indeed be meaningfully
linked to some cultural processes. So on that level,
on the surface level, we are dealing with a
similar phenomenon, we are dealing with population differences. And
by the way, if somebody were to say this
is a cultural difference, you know, on this very
rough level, just to talk about culture per se,
I have no problem with that. Um uh If
you know, if the method of exclusion, that's this
method to exclude genetic and environmental differences. If, if
it had been applied correctly, uh then, you know,
I have no problem with that. But this does
not mean that the culture specifics underlying these cases
are or must be the same. And this is
basically where I have the biggest difficulties always in
getting our main point across the main point from
my research group is to say they, that is
not to say that apes don't have culture. This
is a point that is very frequently misconstruct. The
point is not to say that apes don't have
culture. The point is to say Ape apes have
culture, but that culture might be very different from
the culture of humans. That's essentially our main point
here. Um Yeah, but, but, but, but the rest
of the devil is in the details and so
on. Uh But I'm sure we're gonna get to
this. Yeah.
But do you think that when studying a culture,
uh we have to be careful about, uh what
would probably be some of the differences that arise
between, for example, studying it uh when the animals
are uh captive versus uh in the wild?
Um Well, there are different opinions on that. Uh
The, the opinion, the main opinion is, I guess
for most people out in the world, many, most
people are very interested in apes generally and they
are somehow very interested in ape culture generally. But
when they are interested in these things, they are
usually interested most in the wild ape cultural case.
However, you can also do similar methods, you can
apply them across different populations of captive apes, for
example. And then you can find also some population
differences between these captive populations that suggests, it suggests
that perhaps we are dealing here with similar phenomenon,
meaning that the similar phenomenon might be underlain by
very similar mechanisms as well. But here is where
then some people um disagree. Some people would then
say there is a, there is a big difference
between wild apes and captive apes. And uh that
is, I mean, theoretically speaking, you know, that could
well be. Um BUT then you look at the
arguments and the there is already a problem, the
arguments that people then bring are go are pointing
to completely the opposite patterns. So I'm not explaining
this very well. People make different claims with regard
to this difference, wildly different claims. So some people
essentially claim I, I have to turn this down
a little bit here because we don't have much
time. Um So I'm painting with a very broad
brush here. Some people would then say that um
captive apes are stupid. Again, I'm painting with a
broad brush. Uh So then they would say the
captive apes, they, they can't do very much and
so on the wild apes, they can do many
more things and they are really clever ones and
so on. So these people would then essentially claim
that captivity impoverishes the cognition, um intelligence if you
so on, you know, of these things. But then
you look and some other people say the exact
opposite. They say actually, you know, there is a
thing they call it a captivity effect doesn't matter
what it's called now. And they say, oh actually,
it turns out that the captive ones, they are
the ones that are showing improved cognition. So there
is a huge problem here. And um logically speaking,
uh unless you finesse it down into more details,
logically speaking, on this level, one side must be
wrong, right? It cannot be both correct that they
are impoverished and improved in, in their cognition. So
that's already shown you um part of the divide
that we have in the field where people talk
about different things without even agreeing on the basics,
even agreeing, they can't even agree on the overall
patterns as it were. But if you can't agree
on this overall patterns, and it will be very
difficult also to frankly answer once and for all
the questions that you ask me, it's a good
question. You know, is there a difference between the
culture of the captive apes and the word? And
there currently it depends who you ask. Those people
who say that uh the the uh captive apes
are impoverished, they will give you a different answer
than those who say uh you know, that the
captive apes are improved in their cognition or enhanced
in their cognition. I personally think that the difference
between wild apes and captive apes doesn't go as
extreme in one direction or the other as some
of these scams have been made, right? Uh I
think also if you, if you think about it
for a second, the fact that that can be
people who, who promote the idea that, you know,
the the difference is like this, you know, and
the others promote the exact opposite uh idea. Well,
maybe what really is happening is that the, the
real difference is not all that great. And indeed,
um unless we talk about incarcerated apes and so
on so forth, we, we might do so later.
Um Unless you talk about this, the difference is
not that great. Uh And so my answer then
would be quite similar. My answer would be to
say, captive apes are also able to um have
an ape culture just like wild apes do. It's
just that most people focus on white ape culture.
That would be my my personal short answer to
that question. But I mean, I've also asked you
about that because sometimes when we talk about studies
that are done in uh not only with animals
but also with uh humans in the lab, uh
There are people uh that bring to the table
criticisms regarding for example, ecological validity, right? Of those
studies. But I mean, perhaps I'm saying something that
is completely wrong and if so please correct me.
But uh I mean, I I if um couldn't
we treat, let's say captive animals or animals studied
in the lab as uh I mean, those artificial
settings as a different ecology. I mean, would that
make sense?
It would, it would absolutely make sense. You know,
we can even go into an evil route. You
could, you could and people have done that. Unfortunately,
in the past, you can take um single chimpanzees,
right? So you it's a social animal and you
better treat them as social animals and you keep
them as social animals but, but people have taken
them and put them in single cages and that's
not only is that super cruel, we don't need
to talk about that. Everybody would agree that that's
a cool thing to do but that kind of
thing, that kind of thing I am convinced that
that does deprive these apes and it leads to
impoverished cognition. So how, how can we expand from
this uh case? Right, we can expand from it
in, in the following way, I think we can
ask the the more sensible question and the question
that can be measured like how similar to the
wild do we need to create conditions in order
to make these cases ecologically comparable? This is very
important because when we do that, we see that
there is not one type of ecology for chimpanzees.
Let's talk about chimpanzees. Generally, we can talk about
all the A I DS but chimpanzees are the
typical case to talk about. So when we look
at chimpanzees across, you know, Africa, uh we see
that they live too in very widely different situations
in different environments, you know, but also in different
sizes of populations. That is simply the case, right?
Um So some live in small populations actually, you
know, this is there is also an interference with
human observation there, but let's not go in in
that direction. Um And some live in very big
uh uh environments um in big groups and they
live in this different environments too. So what we
can glean from that is the following, we can
glean from that. And, and we can also imagine
that in the past in the environment of evolutionary
adapted this of, of uh chimpanzees and so on.
In the past, there were very likely more variability
in their living conditions. So actually many different environments,
social environments and physical environments, many different environments are
compatible within chimpanzee life, which means that this is
good news as it were for those captive workers.
Because now it's not altogether immediately clear that if
you have a good zoo that provide the aids
with uh big enclosure, say that keep them in
uh social settings, the chimpanzees, especially in social settings,
right? It's not immediately obvious and it's not an
immediate, you know, Trump card against captive work to
say that there are some differences between this situation
and the wild situations. You know, you can always
find the differences. Yes. But the question is, how
much do they matter? And if you frame it
like that, I think it's easy to see that
the answer will depend, right? I would, I would
say uh some zoos are more ecologically relevant or
similar to the range of environments that uh wild
apes have, right? Some are less, you know, yes,
in an ideal world, you, you take that into
account, but that's why we always report also where
we run our studies. So later meta reviews and
so on can look out for these things. But
as I said earlier, when we actually look, the
differences don't seem to be all that great. Again,
if people have widely different opinions on that. Probably
the truth is somewhere in the middle, which in
this case means they are not altogether incomparable. Yes.
So, uh going back to the wild apes specifically
earlier, I asked you, uh if their culture is
similar or different to humans when it comes to
the differences, do we know exactly what they are
in what ways wild health culture is different from
the human culture?
Um Well, many people, when you ask them, many
people would point immediately to language and they would
say humans have language and AIDS, don't that's what
many people would say to a large degree. I
think it's true. Then again, when, when, when you
look more closely, well, what is language? Language is
a form of communication, right? OK. Do apes have
communication? Surely they have communication, right? They even have
a communication on different channels, you know, they can
uh use gestures, they can use sounds, you know,
so it's not that there is a complete lack
of complexity, say in their, in their communication, right?
And then you get into essentially linguistics, lin linguistic
debates which are always tough to follow, let's say,
right? Uh They are more for the specialists. And
so let me just summarize what I think most
linguists would say. They would say while that is
true that they have this communication, et cetera, et
cetera. There are some big differences still and what
you always find every year when you, when you
look at this literature, you know, the the the
aid researchers, they, they chip away every year a
little bit, you know, they chip away at these
differences, right? But the chips that they remove are
usually not very, very large. So the the the
overall picture is that a communication does, I think
that it is fair to say does get closer
to human language over time. But the steps don't
seem to be as big as they would ever
reach a complete overlap. Let me put it this
way, right? I'm not an ape language researcher. Let
me, let me, let me say it like that.
But that is my interpretation from all of this.
But in my own approach, I try to go
one step deeper. I take the following as um
as granted, one major assumption of my, my work
is also and I take this from the linguists.
Um THEY describe language in all kinds of ways
and some specifics of languages also that we learn
from each other, the words or in gestural language,
you know, in sign language that the specific gestures
from each other, right? The fact that we speak
English together, right? Uh I think none of us
as a as a native speaker, right? That is
because we learned these things from others and also
even our native languages, we learned these things from
others, right? We learned these words from others. But
then what are words in a in a way
um words are a specific type of information. Um
It's in the vocal domain, let's stick with the
vocal domain now. And it's sequences of certain pronunciations
and so on that you really have to learn
as this all sequences a slow. And in my
lab, we, we call this and other cases, we
call that, know how, know how to pronounce a
word, know how to pronounce the word uh printer,
know how to pronounce the word word water bottle.
You know, that, that kind of thing it is
about, know how and, and I know uh you
know, I've, I've moved away quite a bit from
your original question. I haven't forgotten the question was
what is the difference between ape and human culture?
Right? OK. So let's take for granted that language
is still the big difference maker. But now we
see that in order to get language, you need
several factors as the linguist, they've got whole list.
But one of these factors that is necessary is
that you need to be able to copy arbitrary
strings, arbitrary, know how. And another way of saying
that is you need to copy, know how that
you yourself will not have come up with uh
any time in your life unless you had copied
it from others. So nobody wakes up in the
morning without ever having had contact with uh Mandarin
and speaks Mandarin. You know that that is just
not the case. We all know this, but the
the background to that is that it consists among
other things of know how pronouncing all these words
um that we could not just produce our own.
So our lab, we call that and I know
it's a bit of a mouthful, right? We call
that super individual, know how s above individual beyond
the individual. No, is the term. The whole idea
goes back to classical uh research and cultural evolution.
The whole idea goes back to Boyd and Richardson
who pointed out that, you know, a special type
of culture, cumulative culture, I would like to add
cumulative culture of know how produces, you know, ways
of doing things and so on. Um THAT nobody
on their own could develop uh from scratch anymore.
So we just, you know, we just gave this
a label. Uh We, we specified a little bit
more, we said it's about know how and we
specified uh you know, the whole idea in the
extrovert super individual. So the difference then, and this
is the high positive, but it's really very well
supported by now, the difference is that humans have
recounted them roughly and we found billions, billions of
cases of super individual know-how across the whole planet,
across all humans, billions. And then in the case
of the apes, you know, do they have super
individual? Know how, I mean, the interview is continuing,
we can talk more about that. But let me
give you a very rough answer. And the answer
is if, if apes have, I should specify un
incarcerated, untrained apes, if they have super individual know
how they have it in very rare cases. So
a couple of cases, maybe a handful of cases,
but maybe also they have none and these handful
of cases may be illusions. Um But then we
have the answer in focus. Now the answer is
essentially uh human life would be widely different. What
is inconceivable in its current form. If we were
to take all these super individual know how away
everything would come to a grinding halt. We wouldn't
have computers, we wouldn't have language, we wouldn't have
any of these things, you know, you and I,
we wouldn't uh be able to talk to each
other, you and I, we wouldn't have names, you
know. So that is what, what my approach has
been for for many years now. Um TO say
that the difference is that we humans, we are
um we, we are able to copy, know how,
even if there's no how it is super individual
and we indeed do. And we have created all
of this around us in this
way. OK. So perhaps I could save this question
for later. But since you brought it already to
the table, let's censor it now. So uh you
mentioned there the question, I mean, if other apes
have some, some form of super individual know how
uh I mean, what are examples of that. And
I mean, what are examples of that where some
people might claim that they in fact have that?
Yes. So um here is it is an interesting
approach. If you do the data approach, where you
actually look systematically, what are these cases, you find
actually a different answer than when you ask people
like that at a conference. For example, when II
I do this kind of thing as well, I
ask around, you know, I, I talk to people.
So when I explain what I'm after and I
explain, you know, I'm I'm after know how not
know where food is, not know what food is.
You know, this thing, whether it's that thing, we
all know that apes can learn socially also about
these things. When I say no, no, we are
talking about know how more specifically not know how
that they can do on their own, what my
lab calls latent solutions. It doesn't matter what we
call that, you know, let's stick with this. Know
how. So we are not talking about this latent
know-how, we are talking about super individual. When I
explain all that, they give me answers such as
OK. But then for example, they would say, for
example, Chimpanzee nut cracking would be uh one of
these cases, right? Chimpanzee nut cracking. Um I don't
need to explain, they use uh some hammers to
crack, open some nuts, you know, very cool behavior.
Nobody denies that. But it's a question is that
a good idea, you know, to call that super
individual, know how, in fact, um this is so
convincing to most people per se per se without
looking at the data that uh the United Nations
have now uh started to protect Chimpanzee nutcracker. The
United Nations protect Chimpanzee nut cracking. The whole idea
there is that this is they don't use these
terms. But the whole idea is that this is
so human like that, this is super individual. Know
how that this is not know how that the
apes would ever show unless they had developed this
culture around it. That's the idea, right? And again,
nobody is saying that this is a stupid idea.
You know, it's not a stupid idea. It's just
a matter of does it actually fit the data?
And so what we have done is we have
given um uh orangutans in two different zoos orangutans
untrained. So they were not trained to correct nuts,
un incarcerated, you know, so they were not, their
cognition wasn't changed by human interaction. Maybe that's the
shortest way I can describe this, you know, they
were left on their own and nobody showed them
how to correct these nuts, right? We asked the
keepers, they promised us, you know that nobody showed
them how to correct these nuts, right. Well, they
crack nuts, they use an animals and they crack
nuts spontaneously, right? So orangutans don't even crack nuts
in the wild. This would have been maybe the
last remaining uh rescue hypotheses for the United Nations.
Say when they say, oh, maybe they, they learned
it somehow we, because eventually, if you go back
long enough in time, eventually some orangutans had to
come from the wild, maybe they brought this knowledge
along. No, you know, orangutans don't crack nuts in
the wild, not that we know of anyway. And
so we have basically um uh an ape species
very relevant because it's an ape species, you know,
they are all very closely related to each other
and to us um who didn't bring this knowledge
from, there's no help from the world who wasn't
trained to show this knowledge, who wasn't, you know,
cognitively, um super enhanced by, by human incarceration. And
we didn't show them how to do these things
and yet they take hammers and they crack nuts,
right? So p definition is this is not super
individual. Nohow, by definition, it shows that the individuals
could come up with this know-how. So this latent
know-how, it's know how that they can come up
with on their own. So exactly, unlike the example
that I said earlier when I said nobody wakes
up in the morning and just be able to
speak Mandarin or, or Portuguese or, or whatever, you
know, that doesn't happen. But in a is it
does happen that, you know, they, they encounter the
situation and as long as they are motivated. It's
very important, motivated to actually eat these nuts. We,
we tried this with chimpanzees as well and they
were not motivated to eat the nuts. And of
course, you can't study it. But you know, if
they are motivated, then um apparently they can do
it, you know, so the answer then that people
give you what is super individual, know how in
the apes you can then go and you test
it in these ways. And we have done many,
many such tests. And the overwhelming result from all
these tests is that people make these claims, right?
And the claim, nobody you know is fine to
make this claim. But then you test it and
we showed many of these papers are still yet
to be published. You know, uh we show that
these kind of know how develop spontaneously in individuals.
And therefore it does not require the special human
skill, it does not require the skill to copy.
This is very important, the skill to copy super
individual know how instead all they need is uh
being able to trigger each other's latent, know how
they do that. But that's a different thing, right?
I can this is a bad example because it's
a hard wire behavior, but I can trigger you
to yawn, you don't have to copy the know
how of the yawn from me, right? Just to
give you an example that it happens in humans
too, but it's very rare in the human case,
right? We don't, that's not usually the way that
we work that we learn from each other. Right?
But it is a typical way that the apes
learn from each other. And, you know, yes, they,
they, you have to have some social learning in
the apes and it's clearly is there otherwise they
wouldn't have culture. Right. So, um if you bring
it all together apes have culture, yes, but their
culture is different in the sense that they don't
copy super individual, know how, which prevents logically, which
prevents the cultural evolution of this. Know how, because
if the apes, even if some ape comes up
with a super great uh know how on their
own. Let's imagine an ape genius uh scenario. Let's
just imagine this, this a genius comes up with
a super great super individual or maybe a techni
technological way to crack nuts like 100 in an
hour, you know, let's, you know, we humans do
this kind of thing. So why not? You know,
so um this a genius comes up with that,
but if the other apes are unable to copy
super individual, know how they are not in this
example, they would not be geniuses. Well, the predictable
outcome would be that this invention would die with
its maker. You know, all the others would do
the kind of things that they are able to
do on their own again, a long answer. But,
but that is maybe the shortest I can do
for this question.
Great. So uh before we move on to another
topic, I mean, the questions I have asked you
up till now that were mostly related to wild
ape culture and how similar or different it is
to human culture. I mean, of course, uh intellectually
the I guess these questions are very interesting but
from the perspective of someone who's trying to study
and understand the culture, cultural evolution, why should we
bother with these questions? I mean, why, why does
it matter if wild ape culture is similar or
different to human culture and if similar or different
in what way, specifically, why should we bother with
this question? Um
So generally speaking, I think what we are doing
in all these cases is we are not, we're
not producing anything, you know, this is not, you
know, this is not feeding humans on the planet
or the answer to this question, right? So it's
essential basic science, essentially basic science, but that we
are doing here, we're just trying to understand systems.
That's, that's what we do. And within that, I
think we have got a couple of different approaches.
I am, I am a biologist by training originally.
Now, I'm also an archaeologist, but I am originally
a biologist. And so for me, it's just of
general interest to find out how apes behave and
uh what ape culture is where it comes from
and, and so on and to describe it, you
know, so that's generally interesting, but there are a
couple of other things that are more broadly interesting.
Um So for example, to, to be able to
talk about animal culture, generally, we would need to
study as many animal species as possible. Some people
now even claim that plants have some social learning.
So we would have to include them in some
general very general cultural category. So apes then would
be one part of this general puzzle that we
should study everything that we can in an ideal
world. But in addition to that, um we can
use this kind of knowledge, this hard gain knowledge
in order to try to understand um cultural settings
generally and cultural evolution generally and specifically for humans.
And here is where the apes of course play
very um large role. They play a large role
because they are our closest living relatives. And so
in addition to being of interest in and of
themselves, they are highly, potentially highly uh phylogenetic informative.
Uh IF we understand ape culture, it gives us
a handle to have a likelihood, understanding a likelihood,
understanding of uh the last common ancestor with apes.
So if we find some patterns that are shared
among all living apes today, chances are good. Chances
are good is the implication that the last common
ancestor also shared in. It's not the perfect uh
uh data set, right. Ideally, we would have to
have hundreds of living ape species that would be
much better for this kind of influence. But it's
the best that we have, you know, and, and
so we should use it and then we can
infer with a certain likelihood what the last common
ancestor ancestors culture was like. And we can then
build from that. And that is, that is my
other area of research. But I think we talked
about that last time to a high uh degree.
So I would be refer listeners interested in that
what we are homing in our own past ancestors,
cultures like and so on that we, that we
debated last time. So uh people could maybe listen
to that then.
Yes, of course. And as I said, at the
beginning, I'm linking to our first interview in the
description of this one. And by the way, just
to clarify when you mentioned that a certain point
there, our last common ancestor with apes. Are you
referring specifically to the last common ancestor? We have,
we have with chimpanzees or going all the way
back to the one from which uh orangutans and
gorillas also wrenched.
I would, I would say the typical way that
people talk about it, the last common ancestor and
they say it just like that and it's the
last common ancestor we have together with the chimpanzees
and the bonobos, right? Um But my lab has
also been, again, I would refer to the last
interview we did has also looked at all the
other apes and so on so forth. We should
really, ideally, we should look at all primates. Uh
But uh you know, that's hard to do. It's,
it's very difficult to get all the data for
the apes.
So another question, then there's this similarity hypothesis that
people apply to the kinds of questions we've been
talking about here. So what is the similarity hypothesis?
And what are the types of claims that people
have proposed in favor of it?
I think if you ask around us the conferences,
the the the the things that convinced most people
sometime in their Androgyny, you know, um many are
convinced this is how I started too. I was
convinced by the similarity of hypothesis in the beginning
too. And then the data changed my mind, my
own data uh changed my mind but also other
people's data. Um So many people arrived there because
they had heard this in school that all primates
of human like culture, sometimes this was just implicit
by the teachers, you know, and then people just
pick it up in this way. Sometimes it was
said explicitly, I've asked some people a little bit
about that, but many also arrived because in public
uh common media, imagine Attenborough and so on. But
of course, other people in wildlife documentaries and so
on, the typical way that they describe these things
is that they say, yeah, yeah, this is all
exactly like in the human case. And then of
course, um, it looks also, I have to admit
it looks at first it looks quite humanlike. Right.
Um, SO why would people based on that, why
would they come away watching these things and hearing
these things? Why would they come away with a
skeptical mindset? Right. There's absolutely no reason for that.
But, and, and, and that's why I arrived at
the scene, you know, uh like that, I, I
believed, you know, that apes would have human like
culture. Um So, you know, if you look at
that just superficially, there is something already wrong with
this uh approach because when you look even superficially
at ape life and then human life even cross
culturally, you do see differences, right? So there is
a problem if you think about it like that,
if you begin to actually compare with the human
case, but let's not, let's not go in this
direction right now, a different direction is to basically
say what we, the the main convincing things are
that people see videos say of uh mother chimpanzee
doing some things and then often cut videos, you
know, sometimes not even the same individual, but it
can be the same individual uh later on these
youngsters doing similar things, all right. Uh So that's
very convincing to people, then I always point out
yes. But uh that is also the explanation that
people had in the past for um how birds
learn to make their nests, they believe was that
they always have to learn how to make their
nest, how notice how, you know, they learn what
material where this material is for sure. But the
how, that's the question and uh the crucial uh
studies there were done uh many years ago, Colas
and Colas, for example, did a study on river
bird nest making weaver birds are fantastic because they
super fantastic. N you know, super great design, seemingly
very complicated and so on. So what they did
is they took an egg, the beauty with birds
is that you can take them as an egg.
They can't have seen anything, right? And then they
raised these eggs outside of the view of any
nests, let alone nest making and then they ate
it, you know, and uh these river birds completely
naive to nest and nest making, they made the
species typical nest and then, you know, people immediately
get it, you know, they say, yeah, the, the
logic is super clear here. We may have assumed
that the birds have to copy how to make
the nests. But these kind of studies conclusively prove
that they don't. Hm. And then I say, ok,
now we talked about uh birds somehow, you know,
birds are much less emotional and the logic is
much clearer to see, you know, let's go to
this, unfortunately, very emotional case of the apes. And
what if I were to tell you that, you
know, you see mother chimpanzee do something, uh baby
chimpanzee do something if we now remove this knowledge,
right? And they still do it. And I, I
told you about this one example in the orangutan
case already, you know, they didn't have to see
these kind of things. It's logically, it's the same
structure in the river bird case as in the
orangutan nut cracking case, if they can do these
things on their own, it proves that the assumption
that they have to copy these things was wrong,
right? Um So that's, that's essentially one aspect. But
there are, there are two more I think. Um
ANOTHER is that people point to uh to super
rare behaviors. Uh And they say, look, you know,
this is similar to the human case. We've got
this super rare behaviors only occurs here only occurs
here in this particular population of say chimpanzees. And
again, the intuition, we can, we can long discuss
why that is the case. But I don't need
to because people have this intuition already. So I
don't need to explain why that is actually not
a bad argument per se. Um But then we
tested that. So um I A Motes Rodrigo, my,
my phd student at the time and I, we
tested that and we looked at all these claims
where people have said this kind of know how
only exists in this one population of one specific
um species of apes and we asked around and
we look for the literature that came later. Uh
IF that is actually the case and we found
that in 99% of cases that was not the
case or 98% you know, was not the case.
Instead these things did repeat someplace else. They, they,
they, that shows that this intuition, even though it
was not a bad intuition, you know, it was
actually not correct in, in the vast majority of
cases, a know how repeats across different things. It
pops up time and again. And then you have
to explain why does it pop up time and
again. And our approach is to say, well, because
it is latently present anyway, right? And it requires
certain conditions, um motivational issues, environmental conditions, et cetera,
et cetera, tiny details to then create different patches
of these cultures everywhere. That's cultural. Let's let's be
very clear about this, but it's different cultural from
the human case because we culturally evolve our know
how on top of this, you know, very different
uh approach. Oh yeah. And uh and lastly, I
think what many people are also convinced of is
when they see, for example, let's say uh in
a Hollywood movie these days, luckily Hollywood does a
lot of CG I for apes and so on.
But in the past, they would have a trained
ape and that ape would act say very human
like, right? And then they, this the number of
people who came to this belief because of these
kind of images goes down, I think, but they
still exist. And so they basically then say, uh
look, I've seen apes act like humans. What are
you, what are you talking about? Claudio, I've seen
apes look like humans and act like humans. So
they must have copied it from humans. And that
is not true. We can, we can make a
bear ride a motorcycle in circles. It's not that
I would do this, but we can. But that
doesn't mean that why natural bears ride motorcycles, right?
So we have to keep separate, trained behavior and
going even further, we have to keep separate and
incarcerated apes that you know, that are very special,
incarcerated apes are a special case. They are again
irrelevant for the aggression of wild ape cultures. But
it's much harder to see why they are irrelevant
for this case.
But uh why should we study un inculturated and
untrained apes? What kind of information can we get
from
them? So the again, the trained, the trained apes,
if we, if we were to train a dog,
say, uh if we were to train a dog
to not like meat, let's just make it very
simple. It's not about know how this is about,
know what, know what to eat, but it doesn't
matter for now, then it's very easy to see
that this is not representative anymore for wolves. Why
would wolves not like me, right. So if you
were to take, of course, dogs are uh domesticated
animals, we can use a non-domestic animal with a
similar logic. It's easy enough to do. So let's
just stick with the dogs. Um So if we
were to make them train them not to do
something, we can do that, right? Uh But that
is not um relevant for extrapolating what wild animals
would be doing. This is just one example, but
they, the one generalizes, we can train animals generally
via clicker training. I've done this myself, you know,
uh all kinds of race. Um We can do
that and they perform things including even if we
want to know how we can make a dog
done salsa, right? Uh We can do, we can
install, know how in them that would never come
about in wild animals. That means that we need
to exclude all of these cases where we train
the, know how into these animals. Because the question
is not, is decidedly not, can for example, an
ape, can an ape, can an ape show some
human know how that question is a different question,
that question we can answer yes because for example,
we can train them to our question here is
different. Our question is can a spontaneously copy super
individual nohow, copy and spontaneous, you know, these, these
are the two things that we have to have
in place because if they are not spontaneous. Um
And if it's not copying, then this is not
what we are really after. You know, that's, that's
what we are after here. Oh, yeah. And with
the incarceration, the incarceration is a little bit complicated.
So bear with me a little bit. Ok. Um
There are two general, two general approaches to explaining
why we humans have special social learning abilities. So
just so, you know, yes, I'm, my research group
is a little bit special that we talk about,
know how copying supervision, know how copying. So we
specify it like that. But we are by no
means alone in saying that humans have some special
social learning abilities. Others focus focus much more detailed
on imitation and so on. We think this is
too, too focused, you know, but it doesn't matter.
So we are not the only ones that say
humans have got special social learning abilities, good. Keep
that in mind. So now when we say there
was a whole class of social learning American that's
special. Let's even not say what they are. Then
there are two general approaches to this, how we
humans got to have these special social learning. One
approach is to say they are adaptations, they are
natural adaptations. We have them in our genes essentially.
Again, I'm painting with a very broad product. These
people will then say, well, we are born with
these skills or we are born um in a
way that makes us have these skills very, very,
very likely, you know, OK, again, broad brush, let's
not go into detail uh here. But there was
this other approach where people say yes, genes play
a little bit of a role, but they play
only a small role and they play an enabling
role. They pro provide a small platform on which
we build these skills and the skills themselves, these
special skills, they are built into us socially. They
are built into us by culture itself. Very unintrusive
idea. Basically what these people say at the forefront
of this old movement right now is uh Cecilia
Hayes. What these people are saying is we culturally
learn how to culturally learn. OK. So why am
I, why am I mentioning this? You will know
this anyway, but I'm mentioning this because if that
is true, let's just assume for this moment that
this is true. This is the correct way. Let's
just assume then humans themselves learn these things culturally.
And if we learn this thing culturally, it stands
to reason that perhaps the ways in which we
transmit these skills, we could apply these skills and
make other species have these skills too that we
can find soft means to install again, broad brush,
install in their brains, completely new skills, new abilities,
including new abilities to culturally learn. Uh And indeed,
it seems to be, you know, this does not
mean that this whole approach of the CD A
is is completely correct. Although these days, I tend
to believe that maybe it is right, but it
certainly is in favor of this approach that we
see that if we train, if we put our
minds to it, if we put our intentions behind
it, if we apply everything that we can to
make apes copy, nohow, we succeeded. We can, we
can make them different apes, we can change them,
we can cognitively change them. We install something new
in their brains that they wouldn't otherwise have. That's
the other implication. And that is what happens intentionally
or not. You know, it depends on the study
uh when we incarcerate apes. Now, that means then
because no ape is running around in the wild
and no human is running around in the wild,
inculturated apes. And this is not the case now
and this hasn't been the case in any time
in the evolutionary past of apes that we need
to exclude. This is just very, very simple logic.
We need to exclude this incarcerated apes um from
our equation. They cannot provide the answer. They are
interesting if you want to study the whole approach
of C VA and so on. They're very interesting,
you know, for these other reasons. But if we
want to understand what, why apes have and what,
you know, how they make their cultures and by
implication, what our last common answer that uh we
must fully exclude uh incarcerated apes. That's why I
whenever I absolutely can. I try not to study
incarcerated apes. You know, the only time when we
do is if they are intermixed with un incarcerated
apes and then we hope that the un incarcerated
apes come first and test first. You know, then
it's interpretable. If the incarcerated apes do it first,
then it's uninterpretable.
Ok. So, uh I mean, I wasn't planning on
asking you about this, but since you mentioned Cecilia
Hayes there, I've had an interview with her in
2019. And so I, I can't really avoid asking
you this now. So uh I would like to
ask you more about what do you think about
her approach to culture? I mean, to what extent,
but at this point in time, would you agree
or disagree with her proposals and her claims? And
if she, if she was correct, what do you
think would be the implications in terms of how
we approach culture from an evolutionary sl slash phylogenetic
perspective? Because I mean, wouldn't that change the game
uh to some extent because there, there, there are
people. Uh I, I mean, and I'm not saying
they are wrong but uh when it comes to
how culture evolved, uh they tend to think about
particular uh cognitive mechanisms as having to be set
in place in a particular species for it to
be able to either uh have culture entirely or
not, or to be able to have specific kinds
of culture or cultural manifestations like language, for example,
right? Uh But I, but I mean, I, if
she was correct, wouldn't that have a big impact
on how we think about culture, particularly from a
biological perspective?
Several people in the past, I had proposed that
this whole idea of having all these modules in
the brain uh being evolved separately and so on,
it, it doesn't really work because we don't have,
this is actually an argument made by Mike to
Marcelo in his 99 book, The Cultural Origins of
Human Cognition. So Mike went a long way in
a similar direction as as Hayes, but he actually
stopped short only of uh for a few stops,
let's say, um he said his argument was we
don't have much time, uh evolutionarily speaking, if we
look at archaeology and so on uh to explain
the human condition. And so this is just not
very convincing that we would have enough time to
have all these modules installed in our brain. There
are the reasons why this was always a little
bit dubious and Hayes just, just, I mean, she
did a wonderful job, she went some steps further
and she said, OK, uh where Mike said, we
have some adaptations such as he focused on imitation,
a sub form of, of know how copying fine
uh general perfect direction. Um uh Haman said, even
that even that has a cultural origin, right? Uh
And, and in her book, and in her B
BS paper and so on. She listed quite convincing
data sets and I'm sure you talked about that
in the interview. It's quite convincing the case that
the cultural learning of cultural learning is the thing
in humans. But for my own approach, just because
this is important for, for, for me here as
well. For my own approach, it doesn't really matter
if there's no how copy this super individual, know
how copying if we humans get the genetically broadly
speaking or culturally, as long as we have it,
right? So my approach is mute on where it
came from it. I'm not saying it doesn't matter,
but it's for all current purposes is mute on
where it came from. Um uh As long as
it's there and as long it is as it
is uh meaningfully link to all these phenomenon here.
And I think it is uh then um you
know, that that approach still works because in either
case, I would say in either case, you have
this missing in the, you don't really see the
signature signal that super individual know how copying would
have led to in wild a culture, right? And
we don't see super individual know how copying spontaneously
either. So putting it all together, you know, it
doesn't matter where we humans have it from what
seems to be a factor that apes don't have
it at all or they have it to such
a low degree or so or show it so
rarely that it really doesn't translate in special types
of culture that would be similar to the human
spec type of culture that we have here, right?
Um I should also say that maybe there are
other species that can copy super individual, know how
you know in some domains, some people talk about
whale song copying, you know, in a super individual
area, there is there was some debate around that
too. But be that as it may here, we
are talking about the apes, right? And they are
the phylogenetic uh meaningful comparison. And whenever we looked,
uh we could not find these kind of things
in the apes.
OK. So um let me ask you now about
uh another kind of questions. So uh we've already
mentioned a few times during the interview uh social
learning. So and of course to study ape social
learning, people use different kinds of tasks. And the
question I would like to ask you is do
you think that the tasks that are commonly used
to study ape, social learning are suitable?
Yes. Yeah, I mean suitable for what? Right. I
have to be quite blunt here. Um My blunt
reaction would be to say they are claimed to
be suitable for certain purposes, the kind of purposes
that we talk about today in this interview. And
I think for that purpose, they prove to be
unsuitable. Um Let me, let me explain a little
bit. The main task that is being used. Um
The main task that is being used is the
so called um, two target task. It's essentially a
task you can imagine. Uh IF, if we have
a box here and this is a box here
and then there is a, there is a door
and the door can be pulled open, it can
be pushed over, right. So you push it, you
get the food inside, you pull it, you get
the and then one group of Apes sees the
the pushing, you know, another group of Apes sees
the pulling and then people say, uh oh, and
the result is frequently, not always, but frequently. Yes.
The ones that saw the pushing, they, they do
the pushing and the ones that saw the pulling,
they do the pulling good. And but, but then
on this level, there is no disagreement. I've done
these tasks myself. And, you know, sometimes I find
I found this too. So the phenomenon is not
a question, the interpretation and the interpretation is that
some people, first of all, they then claimed we
are looking at action, copy, at the behavior copy.
But that can't be true because for example, here,
you know, I can make it so that you
don't even see my actions and these things move.
In fact, that was a point that Celia Hayes
made in, I think in the nineties. But apart
even from that, apart, even from that, there is
a bigger problem here. The bigger problem is that
people then thought doing these tasks. Um WE find
special types of learning, special types of learning that
we only find in the human case. And that
explain all of the human culture here. Now, that's
a huge problem because it turns out that not
just humans and not just apes copy in these
tasks, dogs copy in these tasks. OK? Then you
might say dogs are domesticated and so on, you
know, but recently, uh also reptiles copy in these
tasks, right? So if you want to take this
task performance and these two target tasks as a
special way of learning, you have got a problem
because then you would expect reptiles. I have nothing
against reptiles, you know, but you don't just see
it, you, you don't see it, then you would
expect reptiles to have humanlike culture too. That really
is the key. That is the first hint that,
you know, we have been barking up the wrong
tree with these tasks. I can say that because
I've done these tasks myself, right? So I think
it's, it's fair if I, if I say this
done this task myself and I think we, we
have, we have been doing the wrong thing there.
The other big big clue is the empirical finding
that if you look whether the apes, in this
case, the apes, if they can pull the door
open on their own without having seen it pulled
open or if they can push the door open
without having seen the door being pushed open, not
just the door of the board removal, leber movements.
You know, there are different versions of these cars.
In all cases. We've done a review on that
together with Lydia Hopper and Carl Von SYK. Um,
WE'VE done a review and we found, well, actually,
uh as you might imagine because they don't sound
very difficult these tasks, actually, the apes can just
solve these tasks in all of these ways on
their own. This is of importance for the current
interview as well because as I said earlier, we
what we need to find is know how copying
that is the copying of, know how that is
super individual. So we are back to the same
kind of um learning in these cases that we
already talked about when we talked about the orangutan
not cracking. If you can potentially develop this, know
how on your own. Anyway, then all you need
is know how triggering you need triggering of know
how that is latently already there. That's very different
from copying, know how that you could not produce
on your own. So for this reason, these two
target tasks and there are many, many of them
and so on, you know, for this purpose, they,
they just don't work, they work for other purposes.
Uh People are very interested in so-called social learning
biases and so on this is like the traffic
lights for, for social learning under which circumstance to
your social learning. That's fine. Absolutely. You can use
these tasks for that. You know, there is very
nice uh papers by Rachel Candle and others and
so on. Very nice. You can do that. But
for the current purpose, you know, human like culture
and so on, um it turned out empirically, you
cannot, you know, uh you can design maybe better
tasks uh that, that, you know, the the animals
cannot solve on their own. Um But you would
have to make sure in these tasks that they
are about, know how not about no, where, no,
what and so on. So again, as always, the
devil is in the detail. I told you at
the very beginning, culture is a slippery concept and
it becomes even more slippery when you make these
distinctions. But I would argue we have to make
these distinctions otherwise we don't get it, you know,
the distinctions between human and ape culture.
And so what would be in your opinion, suitable
tasks to studying ape social learning?
Yes. So this task exists. Um The first was
done by uh by a consortium of, of researchers.
Um Michael Marcelo was there, Joseph Cole was there
as well. And what they did is they essentially
they um made some chimpanzees learn new begging gestures.
Mhm Translated into this interview in, in uh one
would say they taught, they taught, they trained them,
they trained them, you know, this is not to
be confused with copying these, these animals didn't copy
Mike and just happen. And the others, you know,
they train these animals to show, you know how
to beg from humans, know how good. And uh
and then uh I think 18 observer chimpanzees saw
this new, know how be being used as a
begging gesture, you know, and what happened is uh
these uh these observers saw it and every time
this uh train chimpanzees would use this new begging
gesture, they would get food. It was a perfect
begging gesture, you know, from the perspective of these
observers. Now, did any of these observers copy this
new know-how, including I think one son of one
of the demonstrators, you know, so it's, it's exactly
this mother uh kid relationship that we always see
uh in these wild shows, you know, no, not
a single one of them copied uh any of
these know hows, right? So these, these are suitable,
you make them ideally, you make it so that
you've got a large baseline. You, you check really
if they show any of this uh no how
on their own spontaneously. And then if they don't,
you train them to show that and you show
this to others. And I myself have because I
always thought this is exactly the kind of study
that we need. This is the gold standard study.
So my group uh we have done a couple
of these studies and overall, I think we have
now tested, I, I wanna say over 100 apes
different species, you know, all general actually. And um
in no cases, in no cases, did we find
any time any super individual know I copy? This
is very strong evidence that our hypotheses that we
held uh was always correct. Right. Um Or let
me, let me, let me put it so that
it's easier digestible. Maybe for, for those still skeptical,
given that we tested, I think over 100 chimpanzees
uh oh no, over 100 apes of different general
and that none of them ever copied super individual
know how in a technical domain in a non-technical
domain uh from, from aid demonstrators from human demonstrators
and majority conditions. So several showed them, you know,
uh in all kinds of ways. And given that
we never found any super individual know our copying,
not it, it supports the view that if apes
have supervision or copy they applied either super rarely,
right? Or are very weakly. This is of high
importance because all the cultural evolution models show that
you need a certain threshold level of both the
frequency, the reliability of the social learning and the
strength of this social learning. So said in this
way, even if they sometimes very rarely do this,
it just wouldn't be enough to have them have
this kind of human culture that we humans have
right. So that is, that is, I think a
strong statement that we can make with the data
that we have at hand right now.
OK. And so what can we tell from those
data then? Because I would imagine that uh one
claim that someone could make, could make is something
like, OK. So then does this all mean that
uh apes do not socially learn and they do
not and cannot have culture? I mean, I is
that a plausible claim to make
it is not a plausible claim? I have said
extremely explicitly. I think in the last uh paper
uh I said apes, I think I quote myself
correctly here. Apes have culture and nobody denies this.
I could not say it more strongly, right? Apes
have culture. Nobody denies this. Nobody I know denies
this. But what we need is a pluralistic approach
to culture. Not all cultures are created equal, right?
And so apes have many different types of culture.
They have very, we know this securely. They have
cultures of know what to eat. Maybe they would
even starve if they wouldn't have this culture, know
what to eat. It's very strong in that they
learn socially what to eat, you know, from those
around them, from their mothers and so on. That's
a, that's a culture, but it's a different culture,
but they clearly have it. They also have got
to know where cultures, where to be, you know,
and they also quite surely know their territory and
so on, you know, so they socially learn that
too. So they've got all kinds of cultures, but
when it comes to know how their culture is
basically uh uh about no le and know how
that they trigger. In each case. Uh I use
this term, by the way from Dan Sperber, he
made this very useful distinction between the stuff that
is already kind of there and just needs triggering
and the stuff that really needs copying. And um
Andrew Bask and I, we have recently worked on
that to lay more detail in, in that it's
a, it's a paper and press, I think you
recently interviewed Andrew as well. So um so that
that difference is very, very important when it comes
to know how the know how is triggered but
not copied in the sense that we have been
talking about this year. But in order in order
to have all of these things and language, you
know, and many other subdomains of human culture, we
need know how copy and without it, we we,
we cannot get that. So um I would even
say it like this apes have many types of
culture, but they do not seem to share in
this special type of culture that we humans have
and maybe other species have maybe whales and all
right. But I would also say that this also
doesn't mean that humans have all types of possible
culture that is also not the case bats, for
example, they communicate in ranges that we can't communicate
in. So, you know, we wouldn't have this kind
of uh culture if, if the bats have special
types culture based on that, right? So you need
to always look what kind of cultures do these
species show. And we see that there is a
difference in the kinds of cultures that apes and
humans show just like there was a difference between
uh different other kinds of animals in the cultures
that they show. OK. So with all of that
in mind, I have one last question then. So
we've talked about uh differences or potential differences and
similarities between ape culture and human culture. A a
different kind of question and related one is where
do those differences come from?
Yes. Uh Well, Ricardo, uh this is the million
dollar question and um and I don't think we
have a very good answer to that yet, you
know. So I think there is some good answers
maybe more convincing uh to some than to others,
to all the other questions that you had. Um
But for this one, we are quite in the
dark yet. I have argued and I might have
used the same argument in the last interview that
we did. Um I have argued in the past
that in order to try to shed light on
this particular question, why we got the way that
we got? And so on, we should first answer
the question. When did we go the way that
we got first? And if we have a good
understanding of when we became like that, then uh
we can look at the circumstances that acted at
the time and at the time, directly preceding it.
And that is ultimately the reason why even though
I was a psychologist and a biologist before, um
that now I still maintain these directions, but that
I'm now an archaeologist. So now I'm I'm trying
to understand this when this is my, my current
quest as
great. So, Doctor 10, uh as I said at
the beginning, I'm also leaving a link in the
description box to our first interview. Uh Would you
like to mention again where people can find you
and your work on the internet?
So uh if you Google my name or it
will, the things that pop up will be the
Google scholar account. Of course, my, my website would
be probably uh currently the best place. It's a,
it's a Google site as well and, and easy
to find. Thank you
so much. OK. Thank you so much again for
coming on the show. It's been a real pleasure
to talk to you.
Thank you so much. Thanks. Maybe that is the
third time. Let's see.
Thanks. Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview
until the end. If you liked it, please do
not forget to like it, share comment and subscribe.
And if you like more generally, what I'm doing,
please consider support the show on Patreon or paypal.
You have all of the links in the description
of this interview. This show is brought to you
by En Lights learning and development done differently. Check
their website at alights dot com. I would also
like to give a huge thank you to my
main patrons and paypal supporters per Larson, Jerry Mueller
and Frederick Sunda Bernards O of Election and Wiser
Adam Castle Matthew Whitting Whitting Bear. No wolf, Tim
Hollis, Eric, Alania John Connors, Philip Forrest Connelly, Robert
Winde Ruin. Nai Z Mark Nevs Colin Holbrook, Simon
Columbus, Phil, Governor Michael Stormer Samuel Andreev for the
S Alexander Dan Bauer Fergal, Ken Hall, Herzog Michel,
Jonathan Libra Jars and the Samuel K, Eric Heins,
Mark Smith, Jan We Amal S Franz David Sloan
Wilson, Yasa, Desu Roma Roach. Diego, New Jannik Punter
Mani Charlotte Bliss, Nicole Barbar W and P A
Guy Madison Gary G Haman. Some of the Adrian
Yin Nick Golden Paul talent in Ju Bar was
Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Bronner, Douglas Fry Franca
Bertolotti, Gabriel Pan Cortez, Lelis Scott Zachary Fish, Tim
Duffy, Sonny Smith, John Wiesman, Martin Aland Daniel Friedman,
William Buckner, Paul George Arnold Luke Loak Georges, the
Often Chris Williamson, Peter Oren David Williams, the Costa
Anton Erickson Charles M Alex Shaw and M Martinez
Chevalier, Bangalore atheists Larry Daley Junior, Holt Eric B.
Starry Michael Bailey. Then Sperber Robert. Grassy Rough. The
RP MD. Ior Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radix,
Mark Campbell, Richard Bowen Thomas, the Dauber Luke Ni
and Chris story, Manuel Oliveira, Kimberly Johnson and Benjamin
Gilbert. A special thanks to my producers is our
web gem Frank Luca, Tom Weam Bernard Yugi Ortiz
Dixon Benedict Mueller Vege, Gli Thomas Trumble, Catherine and
Patrick Tobin. John Carlo Montenegro, Robert Lewis and Al
Nick Ortiz. And to my executive producers, Matthew Lavender,
Serge Adrian and Bogdan Kenny. Thank you for all.